In this lecture we're going to be talking about math and comments in cotland and let's go ahead and
start by talking about comments so comments are pretty straightforward let me go ahead and clear up
our last example so we have some space to work to create a comment in Coplan.
Caitlin It's pretty straightforward.
All we have to do is do two forward slashes and then type whatever you want.
That's it.
That's how you make a single line comment and cut that.
Now if you want to do a multi-line comment you do the forward slash star and then sometime down below
and look intelligent.
I already did it for me.
You just need the star in the slash below.
And then you can type whatever you want and take up as much spaces as you need.
OK.
So because you know what comments are I'm not going to type any further into that.
That's all you need to know.
All right so let's move forward to talk about math in cotland.
And it's pretty straightforward.
So we're going to introduce a new type you which is the double.
So if you create a variable and let's say I'm going to have my weight be represented as a double I'M
LIKE A hundred eighty eight point six pounds or something like that.
If you have anything with a decimal cotland defaults to be a double.
So if we were going to specify the type here we can go like this and say hey this thing is a double
If there's also lots of other math types like there's a float and I think there is large and small numbers
but I mean double and those are the basic ones that you need maybe you'll need a float but we usually
default by double In fact you'll see when it's trying to you know set the sequel to here it's going
to say hey you know that's not valid.
We want this by default to be a double.
So that's how you create a double if you want to do math with doubles and it's that's totally fine.
Let's do a quick example to find the circumference of a circle.
So if I say for example var radius is going to be equal to something like 6 or up and then I'm going
to make a variable to represent pi.
So pi is equal to three point 1 4 4 1 to find the circumference of this I've got to do pi times are
times 2.
So say VRC shore for circumferences is going to be equal to radius times pi also times 2 and you'll
see by doing this if I print out whatever is inside of C..
Let's go ahead and run this code.
Do you like that it turns it into a double so and smart enough to do any sort of conversion.
Right like if you've got we have a mix of ints and doubles here in cotland just said you know we're
turning all these into doubles.
Now if you wanted to for example you wanted the circumference to be represented by an ant.
You do have to do a little bit of work here because it's saying OK radiuses and then two is and then
but pi is not on PI.
You'd have to say Dot 2 and you can turn into all sorts of different types here.
In fact there are some of the other math ones right the long the short but let's say you know we turn
this thing into an ant.
All of a sudden this is now valid code.
And so I will go ahead and run the see what we get.
Look at that.
Now the circumference is equal to 36 in cotland if you want to add something on to a variable or subtract
something onto a variable.
You can do that with plus equals and minus equals so kind of the fun example I showed in the beginning
was the beginner section was if I have 40 bucks in my wallet and then I go to 7-Eleven and I buy like
a hotdog and a soda.
You know I might have to say wallet minus equal five.
And now wallet is going to be equal to 35.
At least it should be let's go ahead and just do a print line of that to make sure and look at that.
It's equal to 35.
So you can do minus sequels you can also do plus equals.
Just like that to add something onto it.
And just to reiterate if if I say wallet plus equals 100.
This is the same thing as wallet is equal to Wallet plus one hundred.
So you're just taking the existing value and adding on to it.
So really everything that I have for you I'm going to have a very simple challenge for you here what
I want you to do and I'm going to type this out with comments.
Now that we know how to do comments and cotland is make a variable named age and set it equal to your
age and my spelling is just horrendous here.
The next thing that I want you to do is I want you to add 40 to your age and then tell me in a line
comment what you'll be doing in 40 years should be fun.
OK.
So go ahead hip hop in a video and do this now.
So hopefully that went well for you.
Again you should just absolutely blow by this.
You're going to create a variable named age set equal to your current age.
Then just add 40 to your age.
Go ahead and use that plus equal stuff plus equals 40.
Tell me in a multi-line comment what you'll be doing in 40 years.
So I would love to hear what yours is.
Please share it as a comment to this video.
But mine is I will be traveling in the U.S. with my wife in a self-driving RV to visit the grandchildren.
We don't have any children yet so we don't know if this is actually going to become a thing and we're
just banking on the fact that self-driving RV is will be a thing.
So anyways there you have it we're just rolling through here let's keep going we're going to talk about
if statements and booleans in the next lecture.